underlying structure is time
forecasting is different from prediction. The idea of understand what is going to happen based on time. Time is the underlying structure.
The further out in time, the more uncertainty

Narrow cone of uncertainty at first. A wider cone of uncertainty.
We're good at predicting the next 12 hours. 3-4 days are harder.

Good forecasters bring in multiple models (3-4 models). Bring them together to create an ensemble.
I built 6 models. 4 out of 6 models show that the hurricane is heading this way.
We can generate multiple models.

Base R allows you to create a TS object (a time series object)

A time series is organized by some measure of time. The construct is month & year.
class? 

Base R handles this very basic time series. If it's more advanced, how far can I drill down? 
-consistent (regular) intervals

Quality Assurance ==> Your intervals are different based on the time of the day, etc.

Time Series EDA
-first EDA is a simple time series plot. There's so much to learn about the underlying time sequence. 
What are some things you see? 
1) Is there a trend?
2) The series seems to be repeating itself. There's seasonality
Seasonality that is trending!!
3) The variance is getting bigger and bigger. My peaks are getting higher; My valleys are getting bigger too.
Nonconstant variance
4)Do I have a cyclical nature? Let's take a look at the US business cycle. 

What is no trend? I draw a line through it and it's a straight line with mean = 0

If I can find all the underlying time structures, then I can predict with some level of certainty what will happen.

What are the patterns embedded in this time series? If I can identify these regularities, then I can predict!

What I just did to the time series is to "decompose" it?
What portion is trend?
What portion is seasonality?
What portion is cylical?
What about random? (white noise; not reducible)



Four basic forecasting methods:
-Average/Mean
-Naive ==> Miss out on seasonality/trend/cyclical
-Seasonal Naive ==> Replicate the seasonality in the last year ==> Miss out on trend/cyclical
-Drift ==> Allow the forecast to increase or decrease over time, where the amount of change over time (drift) is set to be
the average change seen in historical data. Essentially drawing a line between the first and last observation and letting it "drift" forward.



#Zoo objects
lag --> using yesterday's value to set as today's value (This is the Naive method)
Finding a lagged structure
Because what is happening today is contigent on what happened yesterday!



Confidence intervals:
80% chance that the actual value is within this band
95% chance with the actual value is within this band





